Al Jazeera Timeline

January 25:
On a national holiday to commemorate the police forces, Egyptians take to the
streets in large numbers, calling it a "day of rage".

Thousands march in downtown Cairo, heading towards the offices of the ruling
National Democratic Party, as well as the foreign ministry and the state
television. Similar protests are reported in other towns across the country.

After a few hours of relative calm, police and demonstrators clash; police fire
tear gas and use water cannons against demonstrators crying out "Down with
Mubarak'' in Cairo's main Tahrir Square.

Protests break out in the Mediterranean city of Alexandria, the Nile Delta
cities of Mansura and Tanta and in the southern cities of Aswan and Assiut,
witnesses say.

Hours after the countrywide protests begin, the interior ministry issues a
statement blaming the Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt's technically banned but
largest opposition party, for fomenting the unrest - a claim that the Muslim
Brotherhood denies.

Protest organisers heavily relied on social media outlets such as Facebook and
Twitter.

The interior minister says three protesters and a police officer have been
killed during the anti-government demonstrations.


January 26:
A protester and a police officer are killed in central Cairo as
anti-government demonstrators pelt security forces with rocks and firebombs for
a second day, according to witnesses.

Police use tear gas, water cannons and batons to disperse protesters in Cairo.
Witnesses say that live ammunition is also fired into the air.

In Suez, the scene of bloody clashes the previous day, police and protesters
clash again.

Medical personnel in Suez say 55 protesters and 15 police officers have been
injured.

Robert Gibbs, a spokesman for Barack Obama, the US president, tells reporters
that the government should "demonstrate its responsiveness to the people of
Egypt" by recognising their "universal rights".

Amr Moussa, the secretary-general of the Arab League, says he believes "the
Arab citizen is angry, is frustrated"


January 27:
Mohamed ElBaradei, the former head of the UN nuclear watchdog
turned democracy advocate, arrives in Egypt to join the protests.

ElBaradei says he is ready to "lead the transition" in Egypt if asked.

Meanwhile, protests continue across several cities. Hundreds have been
arrested, but the protesters say they will not give up until their demand is
met.

Protesters clash with police in Cairo neighbourhoods. Violence also erupts in
the city of Suez again, while in the northern Sinai area of Sheikh Zuweid,
several hundred bedouins and police exchange live gunfire, killing a
17-year-old man.

In Ismailia, hundreds of protesters clash with police.

Lawyers stage protests in the Mediterranean port city of Alexandria and the
Nile Delta town of Toukh, north of Cairo.

Facebook, Twitter and Blackberry Messenger services are disrupted.


January 28:
Internet and mobile phone text message users in Egypt report major
disruption to services as the country prepares for a new wave of protests after
Friday prayers.

The Associated Press news agency says an elite special counterterrorism force
has been deployed at strategic points around Cairo in the hours before the
planned protests.

Egypt's interior ministry also warns of "decisive measures".

Meanwhile, a lawyer for the opposition Muslim Brotherhood says that 20 members
of the officially banned group have been detained overnight.

Egypt remains on edge, as police and protesters clash throughout the country.

Eleven civilians are killed in Suez and 170 injured. No deaths are reported in
Cairo. At least 1,030 people get injured countrywide.

Troops are ordered onto the streets in Cairo, Suez and Alexandria, but does not
interfere in the confrontations between police and protesters.

The riots continue throughout the night, even as Mubarak announces that he
dismisses his government.


January 29:
In a speech delivered shortly after midnight, Mubarak announces
that he has sacked the cabinet, but he himself refuses to step down. His
whereabouts are unknown.

Egyptian soldiers secure Cairo's famed antiquities museum, protecting thousands
of priceless artifacts, including the gold mask of King Tutankhamun, from
looters, but some lo.

The greatest threat to the Egyptian Museum, which draws millions of tourists a
year, appears to come from the fire engulfing the ruling party headquarters
next door the night before, set ablaze by anti-government protesters.

Thousands of anti-government protesters in Cairo's Tahrir Square stand their
ground, despite troops firing into the air in a bid to disperse them.

Mubarak appoints a vice-president for the first time during his three decades
in power. The man now second-in-command is Omar Suleiman, the country's former
spy chief, who has been working closely with Mubarak during most of his reign.

Al Jazeera's sources indicate that the military has now also been deployed to
the resort town of Sharm el-Sheikh.

Al Jazeera's correspondent in the city of Suez says the city jad witnessed a
"completely chaotic night", but that the streets were quiet as day broke.

In a statement released in Berlin, the leaders of Britain, France and Germany
say they are "deeply worried about the events in Egypt".

The Gulf Co-operation Council, a loose economic and political bloc of states in
the Gulf, says it wants a "stable Egypt".

The US embassy in Cairo has advised all Americans currently in Egypt to
consider leaving as soon as possible, given the unrest. The UK authorities have
advised against all but essential travel to the country for its citizens.


January 30:
Thousands of protesters remain in Cairo's Tahrir Square.

The crowds are cheering when ElBaradei addresses protesters in the square,
saying "What we started can never be pushed back".  

Turkey has announces that it is sending aircraft to evacuate its citizens,
after the US embassy in Cairo has advised all Americans currently in Egypt to
consider leaving as soon as possible. 


January 31:
Mubarak still refuses to step down, amid growing calls for his
resignation. Protesters continue to defy the military-imposed curfew. About
250,000 people gather in Cairo's Tahrir Square and hundreds march through
Alexandria.

Internet access across Egypt is still shoddy according to most reports.

Egypt's new vice-president promises dialogue with opposition parties in order
to push through constitutional reforms.

Protesters remain camped out in Tahrir Square from a variety of political and
demographic groups.

The White House says the Egyptian government must engage with its people to
resolve current unrest. Obama's spokesperson, Robert Gibbs, says the crisis in
Egypt "is not about appointments, it's about actions ... They have to address
freedoms that the people of Egypt seek".

Opposition groups continue to call for a "million man march" and a general
strike on Tuesday to commemorate one week since the protests began. Meanwhile,
the military reiterates that it will not attempt to hurt protesters.

The EU calls for free and fair elections in Egypt.

Worldwide investors continue withdrawing significant capital from Egypt amid
rising unrest.

Mubarak names his new cabinet on state television, among them, Mahmoud Wagdi,
sworn in as the new interior minister.

Egypt releases the six Al Jazeera journalists who were arrested in Cairo.

Egyptian film star Omar Sharif, known for his role in Lawrence of Arabia, has
added his voice to those calling for Hosni Mubarak to step down, Reuters
reports.

Former US president Jimmy Carter calls the unrest in Egypt an "earth-shaking
event", and says he guesses Hosni Mubarak "will have to leave", the US
Ledger-Enquirer reports.

Israel urges the world to tone down Mubarak criticism amid Egypt unrest to
preserve stability in the region, the Haaretz newspaper reports, citing senior
Israeli officials.

President Mubarak tells his new prime minister, Ahmad Shafiq, to keep
government subsidies and cut prices.

Al Jazeera says its broadcast signal across the Arab region is facing
interference on a scale it has not experienced before.


February 1:
Hosni Mubarak announces in a televised address that he will not run
for re-election but refuses to step down from office - the central demand of
the protesters.

Mubarak promises reforms to the constitution, particularly Article 76, which
makes it virtually impossible for independent candidates to run for office. He
says his government will focus on improving the economy and providing jobs.

Mohamed ElBaradei, the Egyptian opposition figure who returned to Cairo to take
part in the protests, says Mubarak's pledge not to stand again for the
presidency was an act of deception.

Abdelhalim Kandil, leader of Egypt's Kifaya (Enough) opposition movement, says
Mubarak's offer not to serve a sixth term as Head of State is not enough.

US President Barack Obama praises the Egyptian military for their patriotism
and for allowing peaceful demonstrations. He says only the Egyptian people can
determine their leaders.

Shortly after his speech, clashes break out between pro-Mubarak and
anti-government protesters in the Mediterranean city of Alexandria, Al
Jazeera's correspondent reports.

Khalid Abdel Nasser, son of the former Egyptian president Gamal Abdel Nasser,
joins the protest in Tahrir Square.

Motaz Salah Al Deen, spokesman for Egypt's opposition Al Wafd Party, says a
self-described "new national coalition for change" has been formed.

Number of protesters in Cairo's Tahrir Square are revised to more than a
million people. Thousands more take to the streets throughout Egypt, including
in Alexandria and Suez.


February 2:
Preparations begin for another day of demonstrations against
President Hosni Mubarak's regime. The army is still deployed with tanks
throughout different positions in and around Tahrir Square.

Google improves its speak2tweet technology for the people in Egypt.

The Los Angeles Times reports that the Boston entrepreneur Hadid Habbab has
called for volunteers to help find his missing friend, Google executive Wael
Ghonim, who went missing during the protests of the past week.

Clashes between anti-government and pro-Mubarak protesters break out in
Alexandria.

Internet services are at least partially restored in Cairo after a five-day
blackout aimed at stymieing protests.

Egypt's newly appointed vice-president says anti-government protests must stop
before dialogue can begin with opposition groups.

Violent clashes rage for much of the day around Tahrir Square in central Cairo.
Up to 1,500 people are injured, some of them seriously, and by the day's end at
least three deaths are reported by the Reuters news agency quoting officials.

Pro-democracy protesters say the military allowed thousands of pro-Mubarak
supporters, armed with sticks and knives, to enter the square.


February 3:
Bursts of heavy gunfire early aimed at anti-government
demonstrators in Tahrir [Liberation] Square, leave at least five people dead
and several more wounded, according to reports from Cairo.

Sustained bursts of automatic weapons fire and powerful single shots begin at
around around 4am local time (02:00GMT) and continue for more than an hour.


February 4:
Hundreds of thousands of anti-government protesters gather in
Cairo's Tahrir Square for what they have termed the "Day of Departure".

Chants urging Hosni Mubarak to leave reverberate across the square, as the
country enters its eleventh day of unrest and mass demonstrations.


February 5:
Thousands who remain inside Tahrir Square fear an approaching
attempt by the military to evacuate the square.

Differing reports of how many have died in the last 11 days of protests and
clashes surface.

The Egyptian health minister says 11 people have died, while the United Nations
says 300 people may have been killed across the country since protests began.
News agencies have counted more than 150 dead in morgues in Alexandria, Suez
and Cairo.

Reuters quotes Egyptian state TV as saying "terrorists" have targeted an
Israel-Egypt gas pipeline in northern Sinai.

The leadership of Egypt's ruling National Democratic Party resigns, including
Gamal Mubarak, the son of Hosni Mubarak. The new secretary-general of the party
is Hossam Badrawi, seen as a member of the liberal wing of the party.


February 6:
The Muslim Brotherhood says in a statement that it "has decided to
participate in a dialogue round in order to understand how serious the
officials are in dealing with the demands of the people".

Banks officially re-open for 3.5 hours, and traffic police are back on the
streets in Cairo, in attempts to get the capital to start returning to normal.

Al Jazeera correspondent Ayman Mohyeldin is detained by the Egyptian military.
He is released seven hours later, following a concerted appeal by the network
and Mohyeldin's supporters.

Protests continue in Tahrir Square; there are reports of gunshots fired by the
army into the air near the cordon set up inside the barricades, near the
Egyptian museum.

Leaked US diplomatic cables suggest Omar Suleiman, the vice-president, long
sought to demonise the opposition Muslim Brotherhood in his contacts with
skeptical US officials.

Reports say Hillary Clinton, the US secretary of state, spoke with Egyptian
prime minister Ahmed Shafiq (on February 5), emphasising the need to ensure the
legitimate aspirations of the Egyptian people are met, also stressing that
incidents of harassment and detention of activists and journalists must stop.


February 7:
Thousands are camping out in Tahrir Square, refusing to budge.
While banks have reopened, schools and the stock exhange remain closed.

A symbolic funeral procession is held for journalist Ahmed Mahmoud, shot as he
filmed the clashes between protesters and riot police from his Cairo office.
Protesters are demanding an investigation into the cause of his death.

Egypt's government approve a 15 per cent raise in salaries and pensions in a
bid to appease the angry masses.

Wael Ghonim, a Google executive and political activist arrested by state
authorities, is released; some see him as a potential figurehead for the
pro-democracy camp.


February 8:
Protesters continue to gather at Tahrir Square, which now resembles
a tented camp. Protesters in the capital also gather to protest outside
parliament.

The city sees possibly the biggest crowd of demonstrators, including Egyptians
who have returned from abroad and other newcomers mobilised by the release of
activist Wael Ghonim.

Omar Suleiman, the vice-president, warns that his government "can't put up with
continued protests" for a long time.

Separately, Suleiman also announces a slew of constitutional and legislative
reforms, to be undertaken by yet to be formed committees.

Ban Ki-moon, the UN chief, says genuine dialogue is needed to end the current
crisis, adding that a peaceful transition is crucial.


February 9:
Labour unions join protesters in the street, with some of them
calling for Mubarak to step down while others simply call for better pay.
Masssive strikes start rolling throughout the country.

Famous Arab pop star Tamer Hosni visits Tahrir Square, but protesters are
unimpressed and angered. Hosni previously made statements telling the
demonstrators to leave the square, saying that Mubarak had offered them
concessions.

Thirty-four political prisoners, including members of the Muslim Brotherhood,
were released on Tuesday, according to Egyptian state television.

Human Rights Watch says that 302 people have been killed since the start of
Egypt's pro-democracy uprising. Based on visits to a number of hospitals in
Egypt, the organisation says that records show the death toll has reached 232
in Cairo, 52 in Alexandria and 18 in Suez. 

Attributing the information to Egyptian security officials, Reuters reports
that several protesters suffered gunshot wounds and one was killed when 3,000
protesters took to the streets in Wadi al-Jadid, where clashes from the
previous nights carried over to the early hours.

Citing medics, AFP news agency reports five were dead and 100 are wounded in
the clashes that have been going on for two days.

Ahmed Aboul Ghiet, Egypt's foreign minister, tells al-Arabiya network on
Wednesday that the Egyptian army could step in to "protect the country from an
attempt by some adventurers to take power".

And in an interview with American public broadcaster PBS, Aboul Ghiet says that
he is "infuriated" by the US's initial response to the unrest in the country,
and that he finds the Obama administration's advice on political transition
"not at all" helpful."


February 10:
The newly appointed Culture Minister, Gaber Asfour, quits.  His
family says it's due to health reasons but Egypt's main daily newspaper
al-Ahram says Asfour, who is also a writer, was criticised by his literary
colleagues for taking the post. He was the only new face in the new cabinet.

The Egyptian prime minister forms a committee that will gather evidence on "the
illegitimate practices" that resulted from the events of recent weeks. The
committee will receive reports from citizens and civil society organisations
and then present a report to the public prosecutor. 

The criminal court in Egypt has endorsed the decision of banning three former
ministers from leaving the country and the government has also frozen their
assets.

The security chief for the Egyptian city of Wadi al-Jadid (New Valley) is
sacked and the police captain who ordered police to shoot at protesters is
arrested and will be tried.  

Amid rumours that he will be stepping down tonight, Mubarak gives a televised
speech which he says is "from the heart". He repeats his promise to not run in
the next presidential elections and to "continue to shoulder" his
responsibilties in the "peaceful transition" that he says will take place in
September.

Protesters in Tahrir Square react with fury when Mubarak says he's remaining in
power until September. Protesters wave their shoes in the air, and demand the
army join them in revolt.


February 11:
After tens of thousands people take to the streets across Egypt
in angry protests, Hosni Mubarak resigns as president and hands over power to
the army.

The announcement is made by Omar Suleiman, the vice-president, just after 16:00
GMT.

Earlier in the day, masses of protesters had descended on the state television
building in Cairo and the presidential palace in Heliopolis, as well as in
Tahrir Square.

February 12:
People celebrate in Tahrir Square until early morning.
Pro-democracy protesters start to clean the square.

The country's new military rulers promise to hand power to an elected, civilian
government and pledged that Egypt will remain committed to all international
treaties - in an apparent nod to its 1979 peace treaty with Israel.

State television says travel bans are being imposed on several of the country's
former ministers, including the former prime minister Ahmed Nazif, who was
sacked by Mubarak before he stepped down.


February 13:
Soldiers try to remove the remaining protesters in Tahrir Square
and their tents are dismantled. Traffic flows through the square for the first
time since the protests began.

The cabinet spokesman says the cabinet, appointed when Mubarak was still in
office, will not undergo a major reshuffle and will stay to oversee a political
transformation in the coming months.

About 2,000 policemen hold a protest outside the interior ministry, demanding
better wages and trying to clear the bad reputation they have.

Some other public sector workers and bank employees are also protesting in
Alexandria and other cities.


February 14:
Protesters leave Tahrir Square in the morning but a few thousands
return later, most of them protesting against the police.

Police, ambulance drivers and other workers are holding separate
demonstrations.

The military leadership issues "Communique No 5", calling for national
solidarity and criticising strike action. it urges workers to play their role
in reviving the economy.

