Trevor Bramwell
COMM218 - 026
February 11th, 2012

Concept Application - Embraced with Regret

Introduction
------------
Everyone has a shoebox. Its somewhat dusty and probably lays under
their bed, or on the top shelf in their closet. Somewhere tucked away,
out of sight and seemingly unimportant. Yet to each person, this shoebox
is very important. Its the shoebox of previous relationships.

Filled to the brim with every card, every valentine, every quirky small
gift, and every letter ever recieved. It is a box of regrets. I too have
a shoebox. One item in my shoebox is a bracelet. This bracelet was
created for and given to me by a previous girlfriend. It is made out of
AMP tabs and black hemp. Each AMP tab is a different color. Blue, green,
orange, yellow, red, blue, green, orange.

Today I decided to pull the braclet out after have sat in that box for a
couple of years, and wear it, taking note of people reactions and how
they relate to my self-concept, culture, perception, and non-verbal
communication.

Body
----
Though before I had decided upon wearing the bracelet, I considered
shaving my mustashe into the form of a square, much like the kind worn
by Aldolph Hitler. I seriously considered it and had the razor in my
hand when I changed my mind. The main reason I had walked into the
bathroom was not to shave my mustache, but to get away from my roommate.
He was extremely angry after finding out a problem he had been blamed
for earlier in the day was not actually his fault. The anger he show
reminded me of the time my dad would get mad and yell at my oldest
brother and I would hide in my room. 

I realized the reason I was shaving my mustache into the form of Aldolph
Hitler's was to focus that hate on me. 


Throughout the day I interpersonally communicating with about
twenty-five people, only two noticed and reacted. The first person to
notice was my girlfriend Ashlee. As soon as she saw me, she asked what I
had on my wrist. I explained that it was a bracelet a friend had given
me and was made out of AMP tabs. She said she thought it looked good.

This let me down somewhat. The person I am closest to didn't equate much
meaning with a change in my apperance. Then again I am probably over
thinking it.

The second person that noticed was my friend Brittney. As we are both in
a dance class, and the braclet is attached to my left hand, which is
usually the hand extended for dance. She played with it right away and
said "Shiney!". She probably has ADD. Though out of the twenty or so
other people in the class, no one else took notice.

The one person I was sure to take notice, who didn't, was my boss
Justin. I can't remember a day he hasn't mentioned something about my
apperance or dress.

That day I wore a jacket, I think subconciously to hide the bracelet. It
represents a part of myself I'd rather not dwell on.

Self Concept:
    -

Culture:
    -

Perception:
    -

Non-Verbal Communication:
    -



Conclusion
----------
