Trevor Bramwell                             Wed Oct 23 23:58:33 PDT 2013

                       The Abuse of DMCA Requests

The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides protection for
digital copyrighted material. Because of this act, anyone can submit a
request for the removal of content from a website. This happens all the
time online, and is largely abused. Recently it was abused when the game
company Wild Games Studio (WSG) put up a DMCA request against the top
watch review of their recently released game "Day One: Garry's Incident".

The review was quite scathing, but of the 5 other reviews on
YouTube.com that also expounded on how bad the game was, it had the
highest views. Thus WSG sent a DMCA request for the video to be taken
down do to it generating "advertising revenue from game footage".

A few weeks before this, TotalBiscuit had sent an email asking WSG if he
could create a monetized video review of their game. This is how the
review industry works. WSG agreed and sent him a copy of the game. This
was all documented in their emails.

Was it ethical for WSG to use the DMCA to request TotalBiscuit's video
be taken down? I will answer this question by applying Kantianism and
Rule Utilitarianism, and comparing their conclusions.

Kantianism says that by the first formulation of the categorical
imperative, the moral rule here is: it is okay to use the DMCA to
take down content that contains any portion of your own content. This
rule does not hold at all because it completely negates Fair Use. People
would easily abuse this to censor any content that even references the
name of one of their creations.

By the second formulation of the categorical imperative WSG used
TotalBiscuit as a means to an end of selling more games. By sending in a
DMCA request, they assured the review would be taken down, thus reducing
any negative perception viewers might have had of the game.

Kantianism would say that what WSG was not ethical, because their will
was only for the benefit of their own self.

A moral rule Rule Utilitarianism would evaluate is: You should protect
your copyrighted material by any means necessary.

One benefit to this rule is that copyrighted material can be easily
protected and defended.  The major drawback though, is that no new
content related to any previous content would be created, as people
would be too afraid that they would be sued.

Because this drawback outweights the benefits, Rule Utilitarianism would
say that what WSG was not ethical.

Originally this issue came to my attention because I am a gamer, and I
found it quite relevant. Through reading articles related to this
incident I came to understand the importance DMCA plays in the creation
of content online, and it makes me somewhat concered to post content
that builds off of previous work.

Both Kantianism and Rule Utilitarianism agree that WSG's actions were
unethical, and I agree as well.
